# Post-installation Guide for Virtual Machine

## Commands

Here's the list of commands you can use for kernel development.

[Project 0 documentation](/doc/Project0.md) provides step-by-step guilde for building kernel image and flashing the device. So please don't get overwhelmed by the number of commands. Skimming the list with a light heart is sufficient for doing the Project 0.

You should execute these commands in the virtual machine you've created.

### `git`

Git is a version control software. Using git, you can

* download kernel source
* record and publish your changes
* track contributions from other teammates

For documentation about git, visit [here](https://git-scm.com/doc).

### `build`

Usage:
```bash
build
```

Compiles kernel source and generates `image.tar` in the root directory of kernel source. You can use this command in any subdirectories of kernel source tree.

The command `build --clean` cleans source tree and then builds the kernel.

### `flash`

Usage:
```bash
flash
```

Flashes the ARTIK10 device using `image.tar` generated by `build` command. You can use this command in any subdirectories of kernel source tree.

ARTIK10 device must be in `thordown` mode when using the command.

### `pull`

Usage:
```bash
pull <remote> <local>
```
or
```bash
pull <remote>
```

Copy file or directory from the device. 

The command is implemeted using [sdb](https://developer.tizen.org/development/tools/common-tools/smart-development-bridge?langswitch=en). `sdbd` must be running on ARTIK10 device when using the command.

### `push`

Usage:
```bash
push <local> <remote>
```

Copy file or directory to the device.

The command is implemeted using [sdb](https://developer.tizen.org/development/tools/common-tools/smart-development-bridge?langswitch=en). `sdbd` must be running on ARTIK10 device when using the command.

### `shell`

Usage:
```bash
shell
```

Run remote shell on the device.

Usage:
```bash
shell <command>
```

Run command in the remote shell.

The command is implemeted using [sdb](https://developer.tizen.org/development/tools/common-tools/smart-development-bridge?langswitch=en). `sdbd` must be running on ARTIK10 device when using the command.

### `root`

Usage:
```bash
root
```

Switch to root account.

Usage:
```bash
root --off
```

Switch to user account.

The command is implemeted using [sdb](https://developer.tizen.org/development/tools/common-tools/smart-development-bridge?langswitch=en). `sdbd` must be running on ARTIK10 device when using the command. Account status affects `push`, `pull`, and `shell` commands.
